Commands to run iverilog and gtkwave, the comparison between top modules, module structures, and the contents:

Top level module file:
	Data types, assignments, verilog constructs, hierarchal design principle, instantiations, sequential and combinational, procedural blocks, synthesizeable and non-synthesizable verilog code.

Test Bench:
	stimulus genrators and stimulus observers

Key_knowledge:
	difference between reg, wire, and others.
	typedef, parameter
	case statements, if-else, loops etc.

Intro to yosys:
	Synthesizer:converts RTL to netlist.
	Yosys:is a sythesizer.
	ip: design_file and *.lib file
	yosys: synthesizer
	op: netlist file

commands:
	read_verilog: to read design file
	read_liberty: to read library
	write_verilog: to generate the output file

Verify if synthesis is correct?
1.	ip: gen_netlist & tb
	tool: iverilog
	op: vcd file
2.	ip: vcd file
	tool: gtkwave 
	op: waveform
3.	BOTH WAVEFORMS SHOULD BE SAME: RTL AND NETLIST

Logic Synthesis:
	RTL Design: behavioural representsation of the required specification, written in verilog/HDL follwong all the synthesizable constructs.
	Synthesis: RTL to Gate-level translation
		   conveted into gates & connections b/w gates
		   gen a file called netlist

	ip: RTL & Frontend lib
	tool: synthesizer -> yosys
	op: gatelvl netlist

.lib?
	collection of logical modules
	includes basic logic gates
	different flavours of same gate: slow, medium and fast
	Why different flavours?
	>combinational delay in logic path determines the maximum speed of operation of digital logic circuit.
	> T_clk>T_CQ_A + T_COMBI + T_SETUP_DFF_B
	> f_clk(max)=1/T_clk(min)
	
	> T_hold_DFF_B<T_CQ_A + T_COMBI
	> fast cells for meeting performance & slow ceels for meeting HOLD

FAST VS SLOW CELLS:
	>Capacitance: Load in a Digital Logic Circuit
	>Faster the charging/discharging of capacitance -> lesser the cell delay
	>to charge/discharge the cpacitnace fast, we need trnasistors cpable of sourcing more current -> wider transistors.
	>Wider transistors -> Low Delay -> More area and Power as well!!
	>Narrow transistors -> More Delay -> Less area and Power.
	>Faster cells do not come free, penalty of area and Power.

Constraints: optimum guidance offered to the synthsizer:
	->more use of faster cells:
	>bad ckt interms of Power and  area.
	>hold time violations

	->more use of slower cells:
	>sluggish ckt, may not meet performance standards

yosys:

yosys
read_liberty -lib ../path/to/your/sky130_*.lib
read_verilog <filename.v>
synth -top <module_name_to_be_snthesized>
abc -liberty <../path/to/lib>
write_verilog <gen_netlist_filename.v>
write_verilog -noattr <gen_netlist_filename.v>
show
